well addy they're internet people it's
bubble again so tonight we're going to
talk about social progress and optimism
we're gonna do that because somebody
asked me to hyper up today get her
motivated and I realized I get asked
question two questions a lot because of
this channel one how do I stay calm and
how do I stay optimistic was never able
to articulate it before today didn't
really know how to answer that question
I started thinking about it I think part
of it has to do with we frame this
channel wrong when people discuss this
channel they talk about left and right
but that's not really the right framing
for most of the stuff that we talk about
but most of the time we're talking about
social progress so the real framing is
social progressive and social
conservative that's a really a more
accurate framing of it when you're
talking about social issues people get
angry you know and it makes sense
because people become a social
progressive most times because they've
witnessed an injustice or maybe it's
impacted them directly they want to
right that wrong they want to fix it and
that wrong makes them angry makes sense
social conservatives by definition they
like the status quo they like tradition
they're they don't like change change is
scary scary creates fear fear creates
anger makes complete sense
I don't succumb to that in part because
I can disconnect
most of the issues we talk about they
don't hit me directly I'm very
privileged in that way because I have
that luxury
I can take a step back I can disconnect
them because I can do that I can see
what's gonna happen I know who's gonna
win I don't have a crystal ball or magic
cards or anything but I have history
books and they're a whole lot better at
telling the future spoiler alert the
social progressive always wins on a long
enough timeline the social progressive
will always win it's the overriding
theme of history more freedom for more
people take steps back every once in a
while every once in a while you hit a
regressive period we're in one now we
are in one now you can always tell when
you're in one because the people at the
top all they're trying to do and the
only idea they have is to undo the stuff
that came before them you're in a
regressive period fine so I'm gonna take
a step step back but we're gonna take
three forward right afterward on a long
enough timeline the social progressive
always wins works like this
an injustice is identified and a
solution is presented
you know people recognize an injustice
maybe they didn't recognize it before
maybe they ignored it but for whatever
reason that injustice comes to the
forefront with a solution that idea that
package gets embraced by the people who
are most open-minded normally that's the
younger crowd and in the beginning that
generation they're young at this point
1020 percent of them embrace that idea
but see they teach their kids and their
kids have that idea and it spreads a
little bit then it happens again and it
happens again by the time that
generation or ten or twenty percent of
them embraced it by the time that
generation becomes the older generation
it's a majority of people in support of
that idea in the younger generation
that's abstract let's do it for real
last year there was a study and a broke
stuff down by Generation how different
generations felt about different things
the percentage of people who believed
that different races marrying was a good
thing for society it's a good one the
Silent Generation twenty percent thought
it was a good thing the boomer
generation 30 percent Gen X 41 percent
Millennials Gen Z it's a majority by the
time Millennials are the older
generation it'll be 8090 percent it
won't be a social issue anymore
they'll be solved and yeah this is just
in the u.s. it may be different
elsewhere but that's also how it happens
historically it starts somewhere and it
gets exported
in the united states and we have that
machinery for change so a lot of
socially progressive ideas start here
not all a lot so with this in mind it
may not give you any comfort if you are
being impacted by one of these in
justices today but
you should know that it's not that you
haven't won so that you haven't won yet
it will be different for those people
who come after you it will be easier
each time and it doesn't matter what the
issue is if you are on the frontlines of
a socially progressive issue today
you're just fighting a holding action
you're just hanging on until
reinforcements show up and they're
coming you know they're coming and you
know you're gonna win it's a historical
certainty
when that idea comes the only question
we have it's not whether or not we're
gonna win it's how fast and how far do
we want to take it it's really what it
boils down to for me that that
overriding theme the most freedom for
the most people I suggest we take that
all the way and it's easy all we have to
do is to continue to advocate socially
progressive ideas and simultaneously
limit dependence on government that's it
that's it as long as those ideas keep
getting advanced and it sometimes that
becomes hard because when you see an
injustice a lot of times the most
available tool seems to be government
but generally they change the law but
it's thought changing thought is what
matters so
that's all we have to do we keep
advancing the socially progressive ideas
and limit our use of government force
that's it that's all it takes to win not
gonna happen in our lifetimes you know
to get to that ideal world what I want
I'll be long gone but I can stay
optimistic and say in the fight because
I know I'm on the winning team anyway
it's just a thought y'all have a good
night